Doc 1242 cp update (#6377)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/tutorials/cluster-management/update-maintain/update-k8s-cluster.md

sidebar_label: "Deploy Cluster Profile Updates"
title: "Deploy Cluster Profile Updates"
description:
  "Learn how to update your deployed clusters using Palette Cluster Profiles. This tutorial teaches you how to create
  Cluster Profile versions, apply cluster updates and roll back to previous versions. Get started with the basics of
  cluster maintenance in Azure with this hands-on exercise."
tags: ["cluster profiles", "tutorial"]
category: ["tutorial"]
---

Multi-cluster environments create administration and maintenance challenges as they grow.

> Operational Efficiency: Increased manual work hours to maintain and update the environment as more clusters are built

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - _Operational Efficiency_: Increased manual work hours to maintain and update the environment as more clusters are built
```

Reviewer: Make the rest of the items a list with italics for the main term please.

Select the cluster you created in the **Getting Started** tutorial, then select the **Overview** tab. Select **Updates**
to begin the cluster update.

![Image that shows the Updates button](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_updates-available-button-cluster-overview.webp)

A dialogue box appears that shows the packs with changes pending. Select **Review changes in Editor**.

Palette displays the details of the pending changes, with the current configuration on the left and the incoming
configuration on the right.

Review the changes and ensure the `replicas` field value is the only change. You can choose to apply the modified
profile be selecting **ApplyChanges** or decline it by selecting **Cancel**.

Select **Apply Changes** once you have finished reviewing your changes.

![Image that shows the available updates dialog ](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_reivew-updates-dialog.webp)

:::info

> Youhave just applied an updated profile to a cluster that had a profile override in place. When doing this, **any

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

This tutorial will teach you how to update a cluster deployed with Palette to Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft
Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) cloud providers. You will explore each cluster update method and learn how to
apply these changes using either Palette or Terraform.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial builds upon the resources and steps outlined in the
[Deploy a Cluster](../../../clusters/public-cloud/deploy-k8s-cluster.md) tutorial for creating initial clusters. To
complete it, you will need the following items.

<Tabs groupId="tutorial">
<TabItem label="UI workflow" value="UI">

> - A public cloud account from one of these providers:

Reviewer: Let's copy the same prerequisites as the Getting Started tutorials, as the user needs their account. Even if we build on an existing tutorial, it is a nicer user experience for the learner to see what they need at a glance instead of having to refer to the other tutorial.

Author: Later commits had modified the re-requisites to link directly to the deploy a cluster section for each cloud provider. This will keep this page a but cleaner and avoid duplication of the pre-reqs

<Tabs groupId="tutorial">
<TabItem label="UI workflow" value="UI">

This tutorial builds upon steps in [Getting Started](../../../getting-started/getting-started.md). Complete the steps
for your preferred cloud provider.

- [Deploy a Cluster with Azure](/getting-started/azure/deploy-k8s-cluster.md)
- [Deploy a Cluster with AWS](/getting-started/aws/deploy-k8s-cluster.md)
- [Deploy a Cluster with GCP](/getting-started/gcp/deploy-k8s-cluster.md)
- [Deploy a Cluster with VMware](/getting-started/vmware/deploy-k8s-cluster.md)

> ## Set Up Clusters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Set Up Cluster
```
we only have one, right? :)

> After completing the pre-requisites, your cluster should be successfully provisioned, in a healthy state, and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After completing the prerequisites, your cluster should be successfully provisioned, in a healthy state, and the
```

Reviewer: Surprised Vale didn't flag this one.

layers and pack configuration updates.

The version number of a given profile must be unique and use the semantic versioning format `major.minor.patch`. If you
do not specify a version for your cluster profile, it will default to **1.0.0**.

In Palette, navigate to the left main menu and select **Profiles** to view the cluster profile page.

Select the cluster profile created during setup from the list of profiles displayed in the left main menu.

The current profile version is displayed in the drop-down menu beside the profile name. This profile has the default
value of **1.0.0**, as you did not specify another value when you created it. The cluster profile also shows the host
clusters currently deployed with this cluster profile version.

Select the version drop-down Menu and choose the **Create new version** option.

![Image that shows the profile management screen](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_create-new-profile-version-ui.webp)

A dialog box appears. Fill in the **Version** input with **1.1.0**. Select **Confirm**.

> Palette creates and opens the new cluster profile version on your screen. The version drop-down Menu now displays the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Palette creates and opens the new cluster profile version on your screen. The version drop-down menu now displays the
```
as per our style guide :)

newly created **1.1.0** profile. This version has the same packs as version 1.0.0, which it was created from.

Select **Add New Pack**.

![Image that shows the profile management screen](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_profile-add-new-pack-ui.webp)

Search the **Palette Community Registry** for the **Kubecost** pack and select it.

The next screen shows the configurations the pack will apply to your cluster. No changes to the manifest are required
for this tutorial. Select **Confirm & Create** to continue.

![Image that shows the pack search screen with inputs to find Kubecost pack](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_kubcost-pack-details-ui.webp)

> You are now able to confirm the changes you made. The configuration stack diagram should show the cost-analyzer pack

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm the changes you made. The configuration stack diagram should show the **cost-analyzer** pack
```

> with (Kubecost) at the top.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with Kubecost at the top.
```

Select **Save Changes** to confirm your updates.

![Image that shows the new version of the cluster profile](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_confirm-new-pack-version-ui.webp)

## Deploy Cluster Profile Version Updates

Navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Select the cluster you created in the **Getting Started**
tutorial.

Select the **Profile** tab. This cluster is currently deployed using cluster profile version **1.0.0**. Select the
option **1.1.0** in the version drop-down Menu. The Kubecost pack will now be displayed in the profile pack list. Select
**Save** to confirm your changes.

![Image that shows how to select a new profile version for the cluster](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_profile-version-selection.webp)

Palette now applies the configuration changes specified in version **1.1.0** of your cluster profile. Once your changes
are complete, Palette marks your layers with the green status indicator. Select the **Overview** tab to verify that the
Kubecost pack was installed successfully.

> ![Image that shows the new cluster profile with Kubecost functional.](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_deployed-profile-version.webp)

Reviewer 2: Could we replace this screenshot with one that displays Kubecost? :)

> The Kubecost pack is not automatically accessible. To access the Kubecost UI, we will create a port forward in the

Reviewer: No "we" and no future tense please.

> The Kubecost pack is not automatically accessible. To access the Kubecost UI, we will create a port forward in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kubecost pack is not automatically accessible. To access the Kubecost UI, you must port forward the application deployed in
```

> Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Kubernetes cluster.
```

> Download the kubeconfig file for your cluster from the Palette UI. This file enables you and other users to issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the kubeconfig file for your cluster from the Palette UI. This file enables you to issue
```

kubectl commands against the host cluster.

![Image that shows the new cluster profile with Kubecost functional.](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_download-kube-config.webp)

> Open a new terminal window and set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to use the kube config file you downloaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a new terminal window and set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to use the kubeconfig file you downloaded.
```

```shell
export KUBECONFIG=~/Downloads/admin.aws-cluster.kubeconfig
```

Execute the command below to forward the Kubecost UI port to your local network. If port 9090 is already in use, choose
a different port number.

```shell
kubectl port-forward --namespace kubecost deployment/cost-analyzer-cost-analyzer 9090
```

Open a browser window and navigate to `http://localhost:9090`.

> ![Image that shows the new cluster profile with Kubecost functional.](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_kubecost-ui.webp)

Author: pointed to the same webp file as the TF tutorial

Navigate to the left **Main Menu** and select **Clusters** to view your deployed clusters. Filter for the cluster with
the tag **service:hello-universe-frontend**. Select it to view its **Overview** tab.

Click on the URL for port **:8080** to access the Hello Universe application. The landing page of the application now
indicates that it is connected to the API server.

![Image that shows hello-universe with API server](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_hello-universe-with-api.webp)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
![Image that shows the new cluster profile with Kubecost functional.](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_kubecost-ui.webp)

## Roll back Cluster Profiles

One of the key advantages of using cluster profile versions is that they make it possible to maintain a copy of
previously known working states. The ability to roll back to a previously working cluster profile in one action shortens
the time to recovery in the event of an incident.

The process to roll back to a previous version is identical to the process for applying a new version.

> <Tabs groupId="tutorial">

Reviewer: Pay attention to the groupId when you replace the Terraform workflow tabs.

> ## Single Cluster Profile Overrides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cluster Profile Overrides
```

> **hello-universe** namespace.

Author: Yup. If you select the namespace in the workloads screen it will shift to the pods screen and auto filter to pods in the selected namespace.

> ## Cluster Profile In Place Updates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## In Place Cluster Profile Updates
```
maybe?

> profile be selecting **ApplyChanges** or decline it by selecting **Cancel**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
profile be selecting **Apply Changes** or decline it by selecting **Cancel**.
```

> :::info

Reviewer 2: i think this could be a warning box :)
```suggestion
:::warning
```

> We have just applied an updated profile to a cluster that had a profile override in place. When doing this, **any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have just applied an updated profile to a cluster that had a profile override in place. When doing this, **any
```

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

> We have just applied an updated profile to a cluster that had a profile override in place. When doing this, **any

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

> Palette updates your cluster according to cluster profile specifications. Monitor the progress of the update deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette updates your cluster according to cluster profile specifications. Monitor the progress of the update
```

> Select the cluster profile you created in the **Getting Started** tutorial. Select the **three-dot Menu** to display the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the cluster profile you created in the **Getting Started** tutorial. Select the three-dot menu to display the
```

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

> <TabItem label="Terraform workflow" value="Terraform">

Reviewer 2: Also, I'm not sure I would keep this Terraform tab. I would just add a tip box saying something like Follow the Terraform Getting Started tutorial for the Terraform workflow etc

> I recommend changing the format of the wrapping-up tutorial section to option 1. Writing it using option 2 is extremely

Reviewer 2: dont forget to remove this note :)

> 1. Created version 1.1.0 of a test profile and applied it to a cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Created a second version (1.1.0) of a cluster profile and applied it to a cluster.
```

Author: option removed from final commit

> 3. Changed the number of pods functioning in the **hello-universe** deployment using the profile override method.
> 4. Changed the number of pods functioning in the **hello-universe** deployment using the in-place profile update method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Changed the number of pods in the **hello-universe** deployment using the profile override method.
4. Changed the number of pods in the **hello-universe** deployment using the in-place profile update method.
```

Author: option removed from final commit

> Then, you used the in-place update process to change the number of pods functioning in the hello-universe deployment.

Reviewer: I like this but make it shorter and more high level like the original text please.

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

> - [Hello Universe API GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe-api)

Reviewer: No longer required as the user does interact with this service directly.

> - [Hello Universe API GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe-api)

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

> provisioned and compatible with the tutoriails terrform scripts.

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

> This tutorial will teach you how to update a cluster deployed with Palette to Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft
> Azure, or Google Cloud Platform (GCP) cloud providers. You will explore each cluster update method and learn how to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial will teach you how to update a cluster deployed with Palette to Amazon Web Services (AWS), Microsoft Azure, Google Cloud Platform (GCP), or VMware infrastructure providers. You will explore each cluster update method and learn how to
```

Started tutorials.

Select the URL link for port **:8080** to access the Hello Universe application.

![Image that shows the cluster overview of the Hello Universe Frontend Cluster](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_deployed-FE-cluster.webp)

Your result should be similar to the below screenshot.

![Image that shows the cluster overview of the Hello Universe Frontend Cluster](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_hello-universe-without-api.webp)

## Create Cluster Profile Versions

Palette supports the creation of multiple cluster profile versions using the same profile name. This gives you better
change visibility and control over the layers in your host clusters. Profile versions are commonly used to add or remove
layers and pack configuration updates.

The version number of a given profile must be unique and use the semantic versioning format `major.minor.patch`. If you
do not specify a version for your cluster profile, it will default to **1.0.0**.

In Palette, navigate to the left main menu and select **Profiles** to view the cluster profile page.

> Select the cluster profile created during setup from the list of profiles displayed in the left main menu.

Reviewer: This makes it seem like the cluster profiles are displayed in the left main menu.

The current profile version is displayed in the drop-down menu beside the profile name. This profile has the default
value of **1.0.0**, as you did not specify another value when you created it. The cluster profile also shows the host
clusters currently deployed with this cluster profile version.

Select the version drop-down menu and choose the **Create new version** option.

![Image that shows the profile management screen](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_create-new-profile-version-ui.webp)

A dialog box appears. Fill in the **Version** input with **1.1.0**. Select **Confirm**.

> Palette creates and opens the new cluster profile version on your screen. The version drop-down menu now displays the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette creates and displays the new cluster profile version. The version drop-down menu now displays the
```

newly created **1.1.0** profile. This version has the same packs as version 1.0.0, which it was created from.

Select **Add New Pack**.

![Image that shows the profile management screen](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_profile-add-new-pack-ui.webp)

Search the **Palette Community Registry** for the **Kubecost** pack and select it.

> The next screen shows the configurations the pack will apply to your cluster. No changes to the manifest are required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Values** tab displays the pack configuration. No changes to the manifest are required
```

for this tutorial. Select **Confirm & Create** to continue.

![Image that shows the pack search screen with inputs to find Kubecost pack](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_kubcost-pack-details-ui.webp)

> Confirm the changes you made. The configuration stack diagram should show the cost-analyzer pack with Kubecost at the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Confirm the changes you made. The configuration stack diagram shows the `cost-analyzer` pack with Kubecost at the
```

> Confirm the changes you made. The configuration stack diagram should show the cost-analyzer pack with Kubecost at the
> top.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Confirm the changes you made. The configuration stack diagram should show the cost-analyzer pack (Kubecost) at the
top.
```

Select **Save Changes** to confirm your updates.

![Image that shows the new version of the cluster profile](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_confirm-new-pack-version-ui.webp)

## Deploy Cluster Profile Version Updates

Navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Select the cluster you created in the Getting Started tutorials.

Select the **Profile** tab. This cluster is currently deployed using cluster profile version **1.0.0**. Select the

> option **1.1.0** in the version drop-down menu. The Kubecost pack will now be displayed in the profile pack list. Select

Reviewer: ```suggestion
option **1.1.0** in the version drop-down menu. The Kubecost pack is now displayed in the profile pack list. Select
```

**Save** to confirm your changes.

![Image that shows how to select a new profile version for the cluster](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_profile-version-selection.webp)

Palette now applies the configuration changes specified in version **1.1.0** of your cluster profile. Once your changes
are complete, Palette marks your layers with the green status indicator. Select the **Overview** tab to verify that the
Kubecost pack was installed successfully.

![Image that shows the new cluster profile with Kubecost functional.](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_deployed-profile-version.webp)

> The Kubecost pack is not automatically accessible. To access the Kubecost UI, you must create a port forward the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kubecost pack is not automatically accessible. To access the Kubecost UI, you must create a port forward to access the
```

application deployed in the Kubernetes cluster.

Download the kubeconfig file for your cluster from the Palette UI. This file enables you to issue kubectl commands
against the host cluster.

![Image that shows the new cluster profile with Kubecost functional.](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_download-kube-config.webp)

Open a new terminal window and set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable to use the kubeconfig file you downloaded.

```shell
export KUBECONFIG=~/Downloads/admin.aws-cluster.kubeconfig
```

> Execute the command below to forward the Kubecost UI port to your local network. If port 9090 is already in use, choose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Execute the following command to forward the Kubecost UI port to your local network. If port 9090 is already in use, choose
```

a different port number.

```shell
kubectl port-forward --namespace kubecost deployment/cost-analyzer-cost-analyzer 9090
```

Open a browser window and navigate to `http://localhost:9090`.

![Image that shows the new cluster profile with Kubecost functional.](/getting-started/azure/getting-started_deploy-manage-k8s-cluster_kubecost.webp)

## Roll back Cluster Profiles

One of the key advantages of using cluster profile versions is that they make it possible to maintain a copy of
previously known working states. The ability to roll back to a previously working cluster profile in one action shortens
the time to recovery in the event of an incident.

The process to roll back to a previous version is identical to the process to apply a new version.

In Palette, navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Select the cluster you created in the **Getting

> Started** tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Started** tutorials.
```
just to keep consistency

## In Place Cluster Profile Updates

Cluster profiles can be updated in place. When a profile version is updated, all clusters using it will display a
notification that updates are available. Profile changes made using this method do not immediately apply. This allows
you to schedule the work around maintenance windows for each impacted cluster.

Navigate to the left main menu and select **Profiles**. Select the profile you created in the Getting Started tutorials.

Select **1.0.0** in the version drop-down menu.

Select the **hello-universe** manifest. The editor appears. Change the value of the `replicas` field to `3`. Select
**Confirm Updates**. The editor closes.

Select **Save Changes** to confirm the changes you have made to your profile.

Navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Palette indicates clusters have updates pending by placing a
green icon in the **Type** column.

![Image that shows the pending updates ](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_pending-update-clusters-view.webp)

> Select the cluster you created in the Getting Started tutorial, then select the **Overview** tab. Select **Updates** to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the cluster you created in the Getting Started tutorials, then select the **Overview** tab. Select **Updates** to
```

Palette displays the details of the pending changes, with the current configuration on the left and the incoming
configuration on the right.

Review the changes and ensure the `replicas` field value is the only change. You can choose to apply the modified
profile be selecting **Apply Changes** or decline it by selecting **Cancel**.

Select **Apply Changes** once you have finished reviewing your changes.

![Image that shows the available updates dialog ](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_reivew-updates-dialog.webp)

:::warning

You have just applied an updated profile to a cluster that had a profile override in place. When doing this, **any
configurations** in the profile override **will be replaced** with those in the updated profile.

:::

Palette updates your cluster according to cluster profile specifications. Monitor the progress of the update on the
**Cluster Overview** screen. When these changes are complete, select the **Workloads** tab. Then, select the
**hello-universe** namespace.

Three replicas of the **UI** deployment are available instead of the one specified by your cluster profile. The Palette

> The UI may take some time to display the changes. If needed, select the **refresh** icon next to the **time interval**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 UI may take some time to display the changes. If needed, select the **refresh** icon next to the **time interval**
```

drop-down menu to force a refresh.

## Cleanup

Use the following steps to clean up the resources you created for the tutorials.

Navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Select the cluster you created in the Getting Started tutorials.

Select **Settings** to expand the menu, and select **Delete Cluster**.

A dialog appears. Input the cluster name to confirm the delete action.

The deletion process takes several minutes to complete. Repeat the same steps for any other cluster you created.

Once the clusters are deleted, navigate to the left main menu and select **Profiles**.

Select the cluster profile you created in the Getting Started tutorials. Select the three-dot menu to display the
**Delete** button.

Select **Delete** and confirm the selection to remove the cluster profile. Make sure you delete both versions of this
profile.

## Wrap-Up

In this tutorial, you updated a cluster profile using three different methods: create a new cluster profile version,
cluster profile override, and update a cluster profile in place. You deployed and rolled back the Kubecost application

> and modified configuration of the **_hello-universe_** deployment using cluster profile updates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and modified the configuration of the **_hello-universe_** deployment using cluster profile updates.
```
```suggestion
and modified configuration of the **_hello-universe_** deployment using cluster profile updates.
```

## Roll back Cluster Profiles

One of the key advantages of using cluster profile versions is that they make it possible to maintain a copy of
previously known working states. The ability to roll back to a previously working cluster profile in one action shortens
the time to recovery in the event of an incident.

The process to roll back to a previous version is identical to the process to apply a new version.

In Palette, navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Select the cluster you created in the **Getting
Started** tutorial.

Select the **Profile** tab. The cluster is currently deployed using cluster profile version **1.1.0**. Select version
**1.0.0** in the version drop-down menu. The Kubecost pack will no longer be displayed in the profile pack list. Select
**Save** to confirm your changes.

Palette now makes the changes required for the cluster to update the cluster to the configuration specified in version
**1.0.0** of your cluster profile. When the changes complete successfully, Palette will mark your layers with a green
status indicator. Select the **Overview** tab to verify that the Kubecost pack was successfully removed.

> Execute the commands below in your terminal to verify the Kubecost pack and all configurations were removed entirely.

Author: false positive

## Deploy Cluster Profile Version Updates

Navigate to the left main menu and select **Clusters**. Select the cluster you created in the **Getting Started**
tutorial.

Select the **Profile** tab. This cluster is currently deployed using cluster profile version **1.0.0**. Select the
option **1.1.0** in the version dropdown. The kubecost pack will now display in the profile pack list. Select **Save**
to confirm your changes.

![Image that shows how to select a new profile version for the cluster](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_profile-version-selection.webp)

Palette now makes the changes required for the cluster to update the cluster to the configuration specifieid in version
**1.1.0** of your cluster profile. Once your changes have completed, Palette marks your layers with the green status
indicator. Select the **Overview** tab to verify that the kubecost pack was installed successfully.

![Image that shows the new cluster profile with kubecost running](/tutorials/deploy-cluster-profile-updates/clusters_cluster-management_deploy-cluster-profile-updates_deployed-profile-version.webp)

> The kubecost pack is not automatically available using public internet.  To access the kube cost ui we will create a port

Author: manually updated.

- [Hello Universe GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe)

:::tip

> This tutorial can be completed using Terraform by following the steps linked below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This workflow can also be completed using Terraform by following the tutorials linked below.
```
maybe?

- [Hello Universe GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe)

- [Hello Universe API GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe-api)

</TabItem>

<TabItem label="Terraform workflow" value="Terraform">

> We recommend following the **Cluster Mangement with Terraform** guide for your cloud provider of choice. These guides provide an end to end tutorial for Azure, GCP, AWS, and VMware hosted platforms and ensure your test environment is provisioned and compatible with the tutoriails terrform scripts.

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

> We recommend following the **Cluster Mangement with Terraform** guide for your cloud provider of choice. These guides provide an end to end tutorial for Azure, GCP, AWS, and VMware hosted platforms and ensure your test environment is provisioned and compatible with the tutoriails terrform scripts.

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

> We recommend following the **Cluster Mangement with Terraform** guide for your cloud provider of choice. These guides provide an end to end tutorial for Azure, GCP, AWS, and VMware hosted platforms and ensure your test environment is provisioned and compatible with the tutoriails terrform scripts.

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::note

Recommendation changing the format of the wrapping up tutorial section to option 1. Writing it using option 2 is
extremely wordy and loses the message of how cluster profiles can be beneficial is lost. The closing comments should be

> blunt, easy to read, and highlight the benefits. That is our last chance to convey the simplicity of what was done. Busy

Author: was included in comments for planning discussions. Was removed prior to final merge.

paragraphs leave the audience with the feeling that the task was more complex than it is. #Psychology lol

:::

## Wrap-Up - Option 1

In this tutorial you completed the following:

1. Created version 1.1.0 of a test profile and applied it to a cluster.
2. Rolled back the profile changes by applying version 1.0.0 to the cluster.

> 3. Changed the number of pods running in the **hello-universe** deployment using the profile override method.

Author: option removed from final commit

> 4. Changed the number of pods running in the **hello-universe** deployment using the in place profile update method.

Author: option removed from final commit

They can be versioned to keep a record of previously working cluster states, giving you visibility when updating or
rolling back workloads across your environments.

To learn more about Palette, we encourage you to check out the reference resources below.

- [Cluster Profiles](../../../profiles/cluster-profiles/cluster-profiles.md)

- [Palette Clusters](../../../clusters/clusters.md)

- [Backup and Restore](../../../clusters/cluster-management/backup-restore/backup-restore.md)

- [Deploy a Custom Pack](../../../tutorials/profiles/deploy-pack.md)

- [Hello Universe GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe)

- [Hello Universe API GitHub repository](https://github.com/spectrocloud/hello-universe-api)

## Wrap-Up - Option 2

In this tutorial, you updated a cluster profile using three different methods: create a new cluster profile version,
profile override, and update a cluster profile in place. After you made the changes, the kubecost application was
deployed and confirmed operational. After deployment, you rolled back the cluster profile to a previous version and

> confirmed kubecost and all its configurations were removed from the cluster.

Author: resolved in subsequent commit

You then modified the number of pods running in the **hello-universe** deployment using the profile override method.

> Then you changed the number of pods running in the **hello-universe** deployment using the in place update process.

Author: resolved in subsequent commit
